---
title: "CMU, CMU!"
lang: en
toc: true
permalink: /posts/cmu
tags:
  - life
  - study
  - CMU
---
**I am drown in my wonderful lectures, intern projects, etc. Please come back and check later.**

## Courses
### Fall 2020 (Remote)
#### 18-645 How to Write Fast Code I

#### 18-613 Introduction to Computer Systems
A word of wisdom:

All labs before the malloc lab are quite easy. But for the malloc lab... just START EARLY, and WRITE YOUR MM_CHECKHEAP BEAUTIFULLY! Promise me!
The spec is 25-page-long, and the edge cases, uhhh, they will always come to greet you every time you regain confidence.
But we can ace it!

#### 18-786 Introduction to Deep Learning

## Tips for studying remotely
### Remote access to Shark Machines
To be honest, the CMU VPN is really unstable. For courses like 18-613 and 18-645 which require the students to code on CMU Computing Clusters, it is really not enjoyable due to the slow response from the clusters. 

That being said, even if you are a VIM advocate, the 2 seconds' delay will kill your enthusiasm. Hence, following are some tricks that I find useful to write codes locally and then execute them on servers.
#### Secure File Transfer Protocol (sftp)
SFTP is a secure method of transferring files between two systems. By default, it still uses the protocol to authenticate and establish a secure connection.

**Open an SFTP session**
```shell
sftp [USERNAME]@[SERVER_IP/REMOTE_HOSTNAME]
```
* You may be required to verify the credentials.

**Navigating with SFTP**<br>
SFTP gives us the capability to navigate through both the remote and local file hierarchy.<br>
```shell
ls
```
```shell
lls
```
* `l[cmd]` for local machine
* `[cmd]` for the remote machine.

**Transferring files with SFTP**<br>

```shell
# Transferring remote files to the local system
get [remoteFile] [LocalAddress]
```
```shell
# Transferring local files to the remote system
put [LocalAddress] [remoteFile]
```
* `-r` recursive opt. For directory transfer
* `-P` maintain the appropriate permission and access times

**Tricks**<br>
```shell
!
df -h
```
* `!` starts a new local shell to run commands on the local system. Use `exit` to exit the local shell
* `df -h` checks whether space is sufficient to complete transfers

**The ultimate solution**<br>
```shell
usage: sftp [-46aCfpqrv] [-B buffer_size] [-b batchfile] [-c cipher]
          [-D sftp_server_path] [-F ssh_config] [-i identity_file]
          [-J destination] [-l limit] [-o ssh_option] [-P port]
          [-R num_requests] [-S program] [-s subsystem | sftp_server]
          destination
```
* `man sftp` 
* refer to the [official document](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E36784_01/html/E36870/sftp-1.html)